.TH WMI 5 User Manuals
.SH NAME
WMI \- Window Manager Improved, a X11 window manager for hackers
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file \fIcommon.conf\f1 is used to fine adjust the common options of WMI.
.SH FORMAT
The basic format of all \fI.conf\f1 and \fI.session\f1 files is as follows:

key=value

# comment

key=\\#value # '\\' escapes special characters

# special characters are: ", =, \\ and #

If you've whitespaces within values, you've to quote them with '"' characters. You're free to let empty lines or whitespaces before and after keys, the '=' operator and the value. If you need a special character, you've to escape it using the '\\' character, e.g. \\=.
.SH OPTIONS
Following option keys are defined:
.TP
\fBautocompletion.mode=\f1
Defines how to autocomplete in input mode. Valid values are 'regex' and 'default'.
.TP
\fBbar.buttons=\f1
Defines wether the buttons of the float bar or statusbar are visible ('yes') or not visible ('no'), default is 'yes'.
.TP
\fBborder.width=\f1
Defines the width of frame and client borders. Default is 3 pixels.
.TP
\fBdefault.bar-mode=\f1
Defines if bars are visible by default or not. Values are 'show' and 'hide'.
.TP
\fBdefault.border-mode=\f1
Defines if borders are visible by default or not. Values are 'show' and 'hide'.
.TP
\fBdefault.client-mode=\f1
Defines if unknown clients are attached maxmized ('max') or floating ('float'). Default is 'float'.
.TP
\fBdefault.transient-mode=\f1
Defines if unknown transient windows are attached maxmized ('max') or floating ('float'). Default is 'float'.
.TP
\fBframe.autodestroy=\f1
Defines wether frames are automatically destroyed when empty or not. Valid values are 'yes' and 'no'.
.TP
\fBframe.buttons=\f1
Defines wether the buttons of frames/clients are visible ('yes') or not ('no'), default is 'yes'.
.TP
\fBframe.colwidth=\f1
Defines how much percentage is used for the left client in tiled mode of the frame width. Default is '66', valid values vary between 1 and 99.
.TP
\fBframe.mode=\f1
Defines wether frames are tiled or tabbed by default. Valid values are 'tiled' and 'tabbed'.
.TP
\fBmenu.actions=\f1
Defines which actions appear in the menu of the clientbar. The value is a comma-separated list of action names.
.TP
\fBresize-factor=\f1
Defines the relative resize factor for keyboard driven resize or move operations. Relative means relative to the screen dimension. Useful values are between 1 and 30, default is 10.
.TP
\fBresize-info=\f1
Defines where the resize information should be located. You can choose 'center' or 'bar' here, default is 'center'.
.TP
\fBslot.alignment=\f1
Defines wether the slot appears 'right' or 'left', default is 'right'.
.TP
\fBslot.style=\f1
Defines wether the slot should appear 'transparent' or 'solid'. Default is 'transparent'. Solid means fill with bar.background color.
.TP
\fBslot.tabs=\f1
Defines the tabs of the slot. Values are a comma-seprated list of tab names.
.TP
\fBstatusbar.alignment=\f1
Defines the alignment of the status bar, allowed are 'top' and 'bottom', default is 'bottom'.
.TP
\fBstatusbar.status-width=\f1
Defines the relative (to monitor width) width of the space for user defined status information set by \fBwmiremote(1)\f1. Default is 30 (percent).
.TP
\fBterminal=\f1
Defines the terminal command to use for the exec-term action, default is "xterm -e".
.SH AUTHOR
WMI was written by Anselm R. Garbe < anselm@garbe.us > and others (see AUTHORS or the WMI site for further information)

You will find the newest version of WMI at \fBhttp://wmi.suckless.org/\f1. There is also a mailing list.
.SH BUGS
You should report them to the mailing list.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBwmi(1)\f1, \fBwmiremote(1)\f1, \fBactions.conf(5)\f1, \fBsession.conf(5)\f1, \fBtheme.conf(5)\f1
