.TH WMI 5 User Manuals
.SH NAME
WMI \- Window Manager Improved, a X11 window manager for hackers
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file \fIsession.conf\f1 is for experts only. Here special client class/instance hints can be set and a user defined layout (workspace, layer and frame configuration) can be adjusted. Normally this is the job of WMI, but maybe there're people who want adjust everything by hand.

If so, you may ask questions concerning session.conf on the wmi-devel mailinglist. This manual page only covers the basic class/instance syntax for client hints.

Note that \fIsession.conf\f1 is syntactically equal to \fIwmi.session\f1 which can be used as starting point for understanding the expert syntax, which is quiet easy to understand - I think :) 
.SH FORMAT
The basic format of all \fI.conf\f1 and \fI.session\f1 files is as follows:

key=value

# comment

key=\\#value # '\\' escapes special characters

# special characters are: ", =, \\ and #

If you've whitespaces within values, you've to quote them with '"' characters. You're free to let empty lines or whitespaces before and after keys, the '=' operator and the value. If you need a special character, you've to escape it using the '\\' character, e.g. \\=.
.SH BASIC SYNTAX
The basic syntax for setting client class/instance hints is as follows:

client.< class >::< instance >.mode=(float|max)

This setting gives WMI the hint, if an application should be running in maximized mode (default) or run as floating application.

Note that borderless applications will never be maximized whatever you may define.
.SH AUTHOR
WMI was written by Anselm R. Garbe < anselmg@t-online.de > and others (see AUTHORS or the WMI site for further information)

You will find the newest version of WMI at \fBhttp://wmi.berlios.de/\f1. There is also a mailing list.
.SH BUGS
You should report them to the mailing list.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBwmi(1)\f1, \fBwmiremote(1)\f1, \fBactions.conf(5)\f1, \fBcommon.conf(5)\f1, \fBtheme.conf(5)\f1
